docs: add agentic payments docs (#1981)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/integrations/ai/skyfire.md

```text
skyfire-pay-id: YOUR_SKYFIRE_PAY_TOKEN
```

### Running an Actor

Make a standard Actor run request to the [run Actor endpoint](https://docs.apify.com/api/v2#/reference/actors/run-collection/run-actor), but include the Skyfire PAY token in the header. Here's an example using the synchronous run endpoint:

```bash
curl -X POST \
  'https://api.apify.com/v2/acts/ACTOR_ID/run-sync' \
  -H 'skyfire-pay-id: YOUR_SKYFIRE_PAY_TOKEN' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "input": {
      "your": "input"
    }
  }'
```

You can also use the asynchronous [run Actor endpoint](https://docs.apify.com/api/v2#/reference/actors/run-collection/run-actor) if you don't need to wait for results immediately.

### Retrieving results

After your Actor run completes, you can retrieve results using the [dataset endpoints](https://docs.apify.com/api/v2#/reference/datasets) or [key-value store endpoints](https://docs.apify.com/api/v2#/reference/key-value-stores). Include the same `skyfire-pay-id` header to authenticate these requests.

### Supported Actors

Not all Actors in the Apify Store can be run using agentic payments.

> Apify maintains a curated list of Actors approved for agentic payments. To check if an Actor supports agentic payments, use the `allowsAgenticUsers=true` query parameter when [searching the store via API](https://docs.apify.com/api/v2#/reference/store/store-actors-collection/get-list-of-actors-in-store).

Reviewer: Nit: you you maybe directly link the correct URL user can just copy paste?

---
title: Agentic Payments with Skyfire
sidebar_label: Skyfire
description: Learn how to use agentic payments with to enable AI agents to autonomously run Apify Actors.
sidebar_position: 18
slug: /integrations/skyfire
---

Agentic payments enable AI agents to autonomously run Apify Actors using third-party payment providers, without requiring traditional Apify user accounts. This allows agents to discover, execute, and pay for web scraping and automation tasks independently.

> Currently, Apify supports agentic payments through **Skyfire**, a payment network specifically designed for AI agents, but we are planning to integrate additional providers in a foreseeable future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, Apify supports agentic payments through _Skyfire_, a payment network specifically designed for AI agents, but we are planning to integrate additional providers in a foreseeable future.
```

:::info Experimental Feature

> Please keep in mind that agentic payments are an experimental feature and may undergo significant changes considering the rapid evolution of payment protocols and AI technologies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that agentic payments are an experimental feature and may undergo significant changes given the rapid evolution of payment protocols and AI technologies.
```

:::

## What is Skyfire?

> [Skyfire](https://skyfire.xyz/) is a payment network built specifically for AI agents, enabling autonomous transactions with digital wallets and spending controls. It provides the infrastructure necessary for agents to make payments on behalf of users, allowing truly autonomous AI-driven workflows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Skyfire](https://skyfire.xyz/) is a payment network built specifically for AI agents, enabling autonomous transactions with digital wallets and spending controls. It provides the infrastructure necessary for agents to make payments on behalf of users, allowing autonomous AI-driven workflows.
```

With Skyfire integration, agents can discover available Apify Actors, execute scraping and automation tasks, and pay for services using pre-funded Skyfire tokens, all without human intervention.

## Using Skyfire with Apify MCP Server

The [Apify MCP server](https://docs.apify.com/platform/integrations/mcp) provides the simplest way for agents to access Apify's Actor library using Skyfire payments.

### Prerequisites

Before using agentic payments through MCP, you need:

1. **A Skyfire account** with a funded wallet - [sign up at Skyfire](https://app.skyfire.xyz/)
2. **An MCP client** that supports multiple server connections, such as [OpenCode](https://opencode.ai/), Claude Desktop with MCP support, or other compatible clients

> 3. **Both MCP servers configured**: Skyfire's MCP server and Apify's MCP server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. _A Skyfire account_ with a funded wallet - [sign up at Skyfire](https://app.skyfire.xyz/)
1. _An MCP client_ that supports multiple server connections, such as [OpenCode](https://opencode.ai/), Claude Desktop with MCP support, or other compatible clients
1. _Both MCP servers configured_: Skyfire's MCP server and Apify's MCP server
```

### Configuration

Configure your MCP client to connect to both the Skyfire and Apify MCP servers. When connecting to the Apify MCP server for agentic payments, you must include the `?payment=skyfire` query parameter in the server URL. This enables the agentic payment flow and informs the agent about payment requirements.

```text
https://mcp.apify.com?payment=skyfire
```

> #### OpenCode ccnfiguration example

Reviewer 2: typo

```suggestion
#### OpenCode configuration example
```

> #### OpenCode ccnfiguration example

Reviewer 2: Do we have same instructions for Claude desktop?

Author: I used the `Tabs` to include bot configuration examples. 👍

{
  "$schema": "https://opencode.ai/config.json",
  "mcp": {
    "skyfire": {
      "enabled": true,
      "type": "remote",
      "url": "https://mcp.skyfire.xyz/mcp",
      "headers": {
        "skyfire-api-key": "YOUR_SKYFIRE_API_KEY"
      }
    },
    "apify": {
      "enabled": true,
      "type": "remote",
      "url": "https://mcp.apify.com?payment=skyfire"
    }
  }
}
```

Replace `YOUR_SKYFIRE_API_KEY` with your actual Skyfire buyer API key, which you can obtain from your [Skyfire dashboard](https://app.skyfire.xyz/).

### How it works

When an agent uses the Apify MCP server with Skyfire payments, the workflow proceeds as follows. The agent searches for suitable Actors using the search tools or works with pre-loaded Actors. When attempting to run an Actor, the agent recognizes the need for a Skyfire PAY token with a minimum of five dollars. The agent automatically calls the Skyfire MCP server to create a payment token with sufficient funds.

The agent then calls the Actor tool with the payment token. The Apify platform validates the token and starts the Actor run. When the run completes, the agent receives the Actor results and can retrieve additional data if needed.

> Finally Apify's billing system charges the Skyfire PAY token for the actual usage cost. Any unused funds remain available in the token for future runs or are returned to your Skyfire wallet when the token expires. This means you won't lose money if the actual usage is less than the five dollar minimum.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, Apify's billing system charges the Skyfire PAY token for the actual usage cost. Any unused funds remain available in the token for future runs or are returned to your Skyfire wallet when the token expires. This means you won't lose money if the actual usage is less than the 5$ minimum.
```

> Finally Apify's billing system charges the Skyfire PAY token for the actual usage cost. Any unused funds remain available in the token for future runs or are returned to your Skyfire wallet when the token expires. This means you won't lose money if the actual usage is less than the five dollar minimum.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When an agent uses the Apify MCP server with Skyfire payments, the workflow proceeds as follows:

1. The agent searches for suitable Actors using the search tools or works with pre-loaded Actors.
1. When attempting to run an Actor, the agent recognizes the need for a Skyfire PAY token with a minimum of $5.
1. The agent automatically calls the Skyfire MCP server to create a payment token with sufficient funds.
1. The agent calls the Actor tool with the payment token.
1. The Apify platform validates the token and starts the Actor run.
1. When the run completes, the agent receives the Actor results and can retrieve additional data if needed.
1. Finally, Apify's billing system charges the Skyfire PAY token for the actual usage cost.

Any unused funds remain available in the token for future runs or are returned to your Skyfire wallet when the token expires. This means you will not lose money if the actual usage is less than the $5 minimum.
```

![The flow](../images/skyfire-apify-agentic-flow.png)

### Pre-loading Actors

For more predictable workflows, you can pre-load specific Actors when connecting to the MCP server by adding them to the URL:

```text
https://mcp.apify.com?payment=skyfire&tools=actor1,actor2,actor3
```

Replace `actor1,actor2,actor3` with the actual Actor IDs you want to make available, such as `junglee/free-amazon-product-scraper,streamers/youtube-scraper`.
See which Actors [support agentic payments](#supported-actors).

### Actor discovery

When not pre-loading Actors, agents can discover suitable Actors dynamically using the search tools. The search automatically filters results to show only Actors that support agentic payments.

## Using Skyfire with Apify API

For direct API integration, you can use Skyfire PAY tokens to authenticate and pay for Actor runs.

:::info Note

Using Skyfire PAY tokens is intended to use with MCP and all of those operations are handle by the MCP client.

> This information here mostly for completeness if somebody decides they want to try it out directly.

Reviewer 2: I think this was not supposed to be part of the admonition?

:::

### Authentication

Instead of using a traditional Apify API token, pass your Skyfire PAY token in the request header:

```text
skyfire-pay-id: YOUR_SKYFIRE_PAY_TOKEN
```

### Running an Actor

> Make a standard Actor run request to the [run Actor endpoint](https://docs.apify.com/api/v2#/reference/actors/run-collection/run-actor), but include the Skyfire PAY token in the header. Here's an example using the synchronous run endpoint:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make a standard Actor run request to the [run Actor endpoint](https://docs.apify.com/api/v2#/reference/actors/run-collection/run-actor), but include the Skyfire PAY token in the header.
```
